---
title: "Errata"
date: 2022-06-07
draft: false
---

["Linguistic Compartmentalization and the Palace Memorial System in the Eighteenth Century,"](https://muse.jhu.edu/article/776453) *Late Imperial China* 41.2 (2020): 131–179. 

>p. 156: The translation of Yarhûda's memorial contains a mistake. I misread *šeo ben* for *šuban*.  
>
>The quote should read: "…for lateral communications, if one relies only on [quasi-official] *šeo ben* [< Ch. *shouben* 手本 ‘handy copy’] with Chinese-script sticky notes [*ja*(*n*)*dan* < Ch. *zhandan* 粘單 ‘sticky list’], then the malpractices of the sly and cheating unranked clerks will begin to proliferate." 
>
>I'm hoping to publish a revised version of this text in which I which I correct this sentence and translate more of Yarhûda's memorial than I was able to do in the article.

[*The Early Modern Travels of Manchu: A Script and Its Study in East Asia and Europe* (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2020)](https://www.upenn.edu/pennpress/book/16069.html):

>pp. 22-24: The translations from the *Jinshi* 金史 (History of the Jin) and *Yuanshi* 元史 (History of the Yuan) contain mistakes. Corrected versions will hopefully appear in a different publication in 2021 or 2022 (update to follow).

>p. 133: "1780s" should read "1680s."

>p. 168: "It seems that the article on the Manchu transcription of Chinese never appeared." It did appear: ["On the Manchu Mode of Expressing the Sound of Chinese Characters"](https://books.google.com.tw/books?id=ebdAAQAAIAAJ&dq=huttman%20manchu&hl=zh-TW&pg=PA280#v=onepage&q&f=false).

["Mandarin over Manchu: Court-Sponsored Qing Lexicography and Its Subversion in Korea and Japan"](http://muse.jhu.edu/article/682984):

>p. 371: "The emperor's preface to the Manchu-Chinese *Mirror* states that the book uses 'vernacular glosses' (Mnc. *sesheri suhen*; Ch. *sujie* 俗解)." In fact, the preface says the exact opposite, that "vulgar" glosses had been excised from the new *Mirror*.

>p. 399, note 122: "Plants are in *Yakugo shō*, v. 5" should read "v. 6." 

>These mistakes will be corrected in a forthcoming Chinese translation of the article.